GBB/example_data
===

The folder contains data files for testing purposes. Single files and their use are explained in the following:

#### mean epi.nii and mean_epi_enhanced.nii
mean_epi.nii or mean_epi_enhanced.nii can be used as reference volume (argument `-r`). The image is the arithmetic mean of an fMRI time series. A coronal slab covering the occipital lobe of a human volunteer was imaged with an isotropic voxel size of 0.8 mm. A single-shot 2D GE-EPI sequence was used with a 7 T MRI scanner. It is recommended to use mean_epi_enhanced.nii as reference volume which shows an improved GM/WM contrast which was generated by weighting the magnitude image by its phase. The explicit procedure will be explained elsewhere.

#### lh.white
The GM/WM boundary surface mesh was computed using FreeSurfer [[1]](#1) based on an acquired whole-brain scan using the MP2RAGE sequence at 7 T. The resulting surface meshs which delineate the cortical ribbon where linearly transformed to math mean_epi.nii in epi space. This surface is used as white surface (argument `-w`).

#### lh.pial
THE GM/CSF boundary surface can be used as additional surface mesh (argument `-p`). The surface resulted from the same segmentation as explained for `lh.white`. If set, the resulting deformation field will be applied to that surface as well.

#### vein.nii
Optionally, a vein mask can be set (argument `-v`). This mask is mandatory if `devein_params["run"] = True` in the configuration file `config.py`. If set, it will be used in the registration as well if `reg_params["run"] = True`. The binary mask was computed by thresholding the mean_epi.nii and a corresponding tSNR image.

#### control_points.dat
For anchoring, anchor points or control points have to be set (argument `-a`). These file was generated using the FreeSurfer [[1]](#1) viewer FreeView [[2]](#2).

#### ignore.nii
Optionally, a binary mask can be used (argument `-i`). If set, all masked voxels will be excluded from further processing.

## References
<a id="1">[1]</a> https://surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/ (version 6.0.0p1)<br/>
<a id="2">[2]</a> https://surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/fswiki/FreeviewGuide/FreeviewIntroduction
